Maran let's just uh take stock of where
we are right now I mean you hear the
positivity coming out of the US yet you
hear Netanyahu saying this war will go
on until we achieve Victory even if it
takes more time and Hamas saying we
haven't been informed of anything yet
what do you think is going
on look tactically the past uh several
weeks uh two three months in fact uh the
Biden Administration has been more eager
than before to reach a ceasefire even if
a permanent ceasefire and that's why it
came out with that three-phase plan so
that nany government come buy into it in
in a sense that there will be a
temporary then perhaps a permanent
ceasefire Netanyahu is not exactly
buying biting And he as we heard him
today continues to insist uh that there
are red lines and that the war will
continue and it will achieve its
objectives Hamas disagrees because
Biden's because Nan's objective is to
destroy Hamas Hamas does not want to be
destroyed so you can you know figure out
exactly why they're not EXA in agreement
but what is seem to be going
on is there something between behind the
scenes between the Egyptians the
Americans and the Israelis that's where
the security arrangement for the day
after are happening that's where uh the
Americans are trying to figure out who
is going to be responsible for this
Security in Gaza with whose help this is
the kind of role that the Egyptians play
in and you could guess that maybe there
is some movement on that Egyptian
Israeli American front there could also
be some progress on the
Kari uh
American Israeli front about the
captives who's out who's in who's going
to be release the names of the
Palestinian prisoners with the long long
sentences and so on so forth
these are my educated guesses judging
from the various leaks but who knows
Maran look you say that over the past
few months the Biden Administration has
been more eager why do you think that is
what's changed for the Biden
Administration is it simply domestic
politics at play
here that's a that's a by the way it's a
very important question and I think we
need probably going to be discussing for
the days to come but let me just say
there are at least three major factors
one
America sees the bfield better than
Israel it has a kind of a more uh 35,000
ft uh view of the Gaza Lebanon and the
region and it judged already by late
March early April that the war must wind
down and this whole idea of attacking
Rafa and continuing with the war that
Israel is simply gonna really get stuck
in Gaza and this is not the time it's
the time to pull out because the war
objectives and as far as destroying Gaza
is concerned anyway that's happened
uh and then there's the idea that Biden
is now entering a crucial uh period of
his election and the time for uh
relaxing the war the time for talking
about peace and ceasefires and American
management of PX America in the Middle
East is also very important and third
and last and that's to the credit of
Hamas is that I think Israel understood
at least its military understood that
you simply cannot defeat Hamas as we've
been saying from the very beginning and
Israelis came to recognize as well as
the Americans that after n nine months
of War Hamas continues to resist and not
only Hamas the idea but in fact Hamas
the
organization you cannot just destroy you
cannot just finish off the way Netanyahu
wanted to okay so do you
anticipate pressure then being put on
Netanyahu by the American president or
by the likes of Bill Burns and Brett MCG
who are involved in these negotiations I
mean because Netanyahu as we've been
saying has pretty much flat out said
just a short while ago that the war will
go on until we achieve Victory and we
know that he hasn't achieved his victory
yet yes so Biden is in a bind in terms
of using uh enough leverage on nanyo to
force him into a ceasefire because that
will have a political price and Biden
doesn't have much of a political capital
Capital he's down in the polls as you
know his repetion is being really in the
mud because of his poor performances and
so on so forth so he doesn't have much
of a political capital in Washington
he's afraid of the Israel Lobby the
powerful Israel Lobby and he hence he's
not using sufficient leverage but behind
the scene my guess is that especially
through the Europeans but more
importantly through the Israel military
that's where America is exercising its
influence on the government because the
strong EST relationship with Israel is
with the Israel military the best
relation the deepest relation the
longest relationship is with the Israeli
military and I think America is using
that already and that's why we hear more
and more nuanced voices from the
generals from the military spokesperson
that we need to wind down this war that
we could win it in a different ways but
that we need a ceasefire we need to
release the captives this new tone and
stance from the Israeli military I think
comes in
part because of American pressure okay
Maran thank you so much Maran bishar
joining us from
Paris make sure to subscribe to our
channel to get the latest news from aler